---
title: 'Logistic Regression and the Incidental Parameters Problem'
date: 2021-03-6
permalink: /posts/2021/03/blog-post-1/
tags:
  - econometrics
  - logistic
  - endogeneity
---

This is the first in what I hope will be a series of basic blog posts in which I'll discuss basic issues in econometric analysis, and common pitfalls. My plan is to demonstrate the issues intuitively, and concretely, via simulation. Hopefully by providing this code, anyone who comes across the material can download and play with the code themselves to better understand the issues at play. All simulations will be conducted in R. 

Incidental Parameters Problem
======

The incidental parameters problem (henceforth IPP) is a well-known problem in econometrics, dating back more than 80 years. The seminal paper introducing the problem was published by Jerzy Neyman and Betty Scott in [Econometrica](https://www.jstor.org/stable/1914288?seq=1 "Econometrica") in 1948. I won't rehash the details of the issue here, but I'll give you the punch line.

1. With linear regression, we generally address time invariant confounds in panel data via fixed effects (either panel dummies, or the mathematically equivalent within-transformation).

2. Unfortunately, those methods do not 'work' in non-linear regression, because the fixed effects enter the specification multiplicatively (the only exception here is Poisson regression, where the math still works out as a matter of convenience). 

3. Fortunately, Gary Chamberlain derived [conditional logit](https://www.jstor.org/stable/2297110?seq=1 "conditional logit"), wherein the panel fixed effects are instead addressed via a transformation to the likelihood function. 

While I encourage anyone to go and read these papers, my goal here is to demonstrate concretely, via simulation, just how poorly a dummy fixed effect estimator performs in the case of panel logistic regression. I will first simulate a simple scenario of static confounding, wherein a standard logistic regression model fails to recover the parameter of interest. Subsequently, I will compare its performance against alternative correction procedures, namely i) a dummy fixed effect estimator and ii) the Chamberlain conditional logit estimator. Notably a more recent literature pursues bias correction methods for general non-linear panel data models, e.g., Fernandez-Val (2009) in the [Journal of Econoemtrics](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0304407609000463 "Journal of Econometrics"). Accordingly, iii) I will also explore the efficacy of Fernandez-Val's bias correction following dummy fixed effect logit. 

STAY TUNED - I WILL COMPLETE THIS POST SHORTLY

